README.md, before:

# Calagopus Wings

a rewrite of [pterodactyl wings](https://github.com/pterodactyl/wings) in the rust programming language. this rewrite aims to be 100% API compatible while implementing new features and better performance.

[todo](https://notes.rjns.dev/workspace/cb7ccae8-0508-4f90-9161-d1e69b0ca8f0/uAVAL7iHSQpDk1SiSUPL1)

## quick installation

### please remember to update atleast weekly

```bash
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/calagopus/wings/releases/latest/download/wings-rs-$(uname -m)-linux" -o /usr/local/bin/wings
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/wings

wings version
```

## added config options

```yml
api:
  # custom redirects for the api server, e.g. / -> https://yourpanel.com
  redirects: {}
  # max amount of active file pulls per server
  server_remote_download_limit: 3
  # cidrs to block on the remote download pull endpoint
  remote_download_blocked_cidrs:
  - '127.0.0.0/8'
  - '10.0.0.0/8'
  - '172.16.0.0/12'
  - '192.168.0.0/16'
  - '169.254.0.0/16'
  - ::1
  - fe80::/10
  - fc00::/7
  # whether to disable the /openapi.json endpoint
  disable_openapi_docs: false
  # how many entries can be listed on a single page on the /list-directory API call, 0 means unlimited
  directory_entry_limit: 10000
  # send server logs of an offline server when connecting to ws
  send_offline_server_logs: false
  # how many threads to use when searching files using file search
  file_search_threads: 4
  # how many threads to use when copying directories
  file_copy_threads: 4
  # how many threads to use when decompressing .zip/.7z/.ddup
  file_decompression_threads: 2
  # how many threads to use when compressing .gz/.xz/.7z
  file_compression_threads: 2
  # how often a jwt can be used to download a file/backup until expiry, 0 means unlimited (2 minimum recommended)
  max_jwt_uses: 5

system:
  # apply a real quota limit to each server
  # none, btrfs_subvolume, zfs_dataset, xfs_quota, (experimental) fuse_quota
  disk_limiter_mode: none
  # use multiple threads to check disk usage (usually lower to reduce load)
  disk_limiter_threads: 2

  # use multiple threads to run chown on server startup
  check_permissions_on_boot_threads: 4

  sftp:
    # whether to even enable to sftp (ssh) server
    enabled: true
    # the algorithm to use for the ssh host key
    key_algorithm: ssh-ed25519
    # whether to disable password auth for the sftp (ssh) server
    disable_password_auth: false
    # how many entries can be listed on readdir, 0 means unlimited
    directory_entry_limit: 20000
    # how many entries to send on each readdir call (chunk size)
    directory_entry_send_amount: 500

    limits:
      # how many failed password authentication attempts within cooldown
      authentication_password_attempts: 3
      # how many failed public key authentication attempts within cooldown
      authentication_pubkey_attempts: 20
      # how long in seconds to cooldown after reaching max authentication attempts (if 0, no cooldown is applied)
      # the cooldown is a sliding window, so if you make 3 failed attempts in 1 minute, you will have to wait 60 seconds from the last attempt
      authentication_cooldown: 60

    shell:
      # whether to enable the wings remote shell (allows server management over ssh)
      enabled: true

      cli:
        # what to call the internal cli for managing server actions (e.g. ".wings help")
        name: ".wings"

    activity:
      # whether to log successful sftp logins in server activity
      log_logins: false
      # whether to log file read actions in server activity
      log_file_reads: false

  backups:
    # what compression level to use? best_speed, good_speed, good_compression, best_compression (higher compression = more CPU usage, better compression)
    compression_level: best_speed
    # allow browsing backups via the web file manager
    mounting:
      # whether backup "mounting" is enabled
      enabled: true
      # what the start of the path should be for browsing
      # in this case, ".backups/<backup uuid>"
      path: .backups

    # settings for the wings backup driver
    wings:
      # how many threads to use when creating a .gz/.xz/.7z wings backup
      create_threads: 4
      # how many threads to use when restoring a zip wings backup
      restore_threads: 4
      # what archive format to use for local (wings) backups
      # tar, tar_gz, tar_xz, tar_bz2, tar_lz4, tar_zstd, zip, seven_zip
      archive_format: tar_gz

    # settings for the s3 backup driver
    s3:
      # how many threads to use when creating a .gz s3 backup
      create_threads: 4
      # how long in seconds to wait until a backup part is uploaded to s3
      part_upload_timeout: 7200
      # how often to attempt retrying each failed backup part
      retry_limit: 10

    # settings for the ddup-bak backup driver
    ddup_bak:
      # how many threads to use when creating a ddup-bak backup
      create_threads: 4
      # the compression format to use for each ddup-bak chunk
      # none, deflate, gzip, brotli
      compression_format: deflate

    # settings for the restic backup driver
    restic:
      # the repository to use for restic backups (must already be initialized, can be overriden by panel)
      repository: /var/lib/pterodactyl/backups/restic
      # the password file to use for authenticating against the repository (can be overriden by panel)
      password-file: /var/lib/pterodactyl/backups/restic_password
      # how long to wait for a repository lock if locked in seconds (can be overriden by panel)
      retry_lock_seconds: 60
      # the restic cli environment for each command (useful for s3 credentials, etc, can be overriden by panel)
      environment: {}

    # settings for the btrfs backup driver
    btrfs:
      # how many threads to use when restoring a btrfs backup (snapshot)
      restore_threads: 4
      # whether to create the snapshots as read-only
      create_read_only: true

    # settings for the zfs backup driver
    zfs:
      # how many threads to use when restoring a zfs backup (snapshot)
      restore_threads: 4

docker:
  # the docker-compatible socket or http address to connect to
  socket: /var/run/docker.sock
  # whether to add (part) of the server name in the container name
  server_name_in_container_name: false
  # delete docker containers when a server is stopped/killed/crashes (a lot better for your cpu)
  delete_container_on_stop: true

  network:
    # whether to disable binding to a specific ip
    disable_interface_binding: false

  installer_limits:
    # how long in seconds to wait until an install container is considered failed, 0 means no limit
    timeout: 1800

remote_headers: {}

remote_query:
  # how often to attempt retrying some important api requests (exponential backoff)
  retry_limit: 10
```

## added features

### api

- `GET /openapi.json` endpoint for getting a full OpenAPI documentation of the wings api
- `GET /api/stats` api endpoint for seeing node usage
- `GET /api/system/logs` api endpoint for listing all wings log files
- `GET /api/system/logs/{file}` api endpoint for reading a wings log file
- `POST /api/system/upgrade` api endpoint for remotely upgrading the wings binary
- `POST /api/servers/{server}/script` api endpoint for running custom scripts async on the server
- `POST /api/servers/{server}/ws/permissions` api endpoint for live updating user permissions on a server
- `POST /api/servers/{server}/install/abort` api endpoint for aborting a server installation process
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/logs/install` api endpoint for getting server installation logs
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/version` api endpoint for getting a version hash for a server
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/files/fingerprints` api endpoint for getting fingerprints for many files at once
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/files/list` api endpoint for listing files with pagination
- `POST /api/servers/{server}/files/search` api endpoint for searching for file names/content
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/download/directory` api endpoint for downloading directories on-the-fly as archives

---

- properly support egg `file_denylist`
- add support for `name` property on `POST /api/servers/{server}/files/copy`
- add support for opening individual compressed file (e.g. `.log.gz`) in `GET /api/servers/{server}/files/contents`
- add (real) folder size support on `GET /api/servers/{server}/files/list-directory`
- add multithreading support to `POST /api/servers/{server}/files/decompress`
- add zip and 7z support to `POST /api/servers/{server}/files/compress`
- add support for `ignored_files` in the file upload jwt
- allow transferring backups in server transfers

### shell

- add ability to connect via ssh and access server console
- add `.wings` cli to do basic server actions like power

### sftp

- add support for the [check-file](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-secsh-filexfer-extensions-00#section-3) sftp extension
- add support for the [copy-file](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-secsh-filexfer-extensions-00#section-6) sftp extension
- add support for the [space-available](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-secsh-filexfer-extensions-00#section-4) sftp extension
- add support for the [limits@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L597) sftp extension
- add support for the [statvfs@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L510) sftp extension
- add support for the [hardlink@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L478) sftp extension
- add support for the [fsync@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L494) sftp extension
- add support for the [lsetstat@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L508) sftp extension
- properly support egg `file_denylist`

### backups

- add [`ddup-bak`](https://github.com/0x7d8/ddup-bak) backup driver
- add [`btrfs`](https://github.com/kdave/btrfs-progs) backup driver
- add [`zfs`](https://github.com/openzfs/zfs) backup driver
- add [`restic`](https://github.com/restic/restic) backup driver
- add ability to create `zip` and `7z` archives on `wings` backup driver
- add ability to browse backups (for some drivers)

### cli

- add `service-install` command to automatically setup a service for wings

Commit message:

rewrite filesystem code, unify ssl dependencies, general code refactoring, arbitrary archive browsing support, lzip compression/decompression support

README.md, after:

# Calagopus Wings

a rewrite of [pterodactyl wings](https://github.com/pterodactyl/wings) in the rust programming language. this rewrite aims to be 100% API compatible while implementing new features and better performance.

[todo](https://notes.rjns.dev/workspace/cb7ccae8-0508-4f90-9161-d1e69b0ca8f0/uAVAL7iHSQpDk1SiSUPL1)

## quick installation

### please remember to update atleast weekly

```bash
sudo curl -L "https://github.com/calagopus/wings/releases/latest/download/wings-rs-$(uname -m)-linux" -o /usr/local/bin/wings
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/wings

wings version
```

## added config options

```yml
api:
  # custom redirects for the api server, e.g. / -> https://yourpanel.com
  redirects: {}
  # max amount of active file pulls per server
  server_remote_download_limit: 3
  # cidrs to block on the remote download pull endpoint
  remote_download_blocked_cidrs:
  - '127.0.0.0/8'
  - '10.0.0.0/8'
  - '172.16.0.0/12'
  - '192.168.0.0/16'
  - '169.254.0.0/16'
  - ::1
  - fe80::/10
  - fc00::/7
  # whether to disable the /openapi.json endpoint
  disable_openapi_docs: false
  # how many entries can be listed on a single page on the /list-directory API call, 0 means unlimited
  directory_entry_limit: 10000
  # send server logs of an offline server when connecting to ws
  send_offline_server_logs: false
  # how many threads to use when searching files using file search
  file_search_threads: 4
  # how many threads to use when copying directories
  file_copy_threads: 4
  # how many threads to use when decompressing .zip/.7z/.ddup
  file_decompression_threads: 2
  # how many threads to use when compressing .gz/.xz/.7z
  file_compression_threads: 2
  # how often a jwt can be used to download a file/backup until expiry, 0 means unlimited (2 minimum recommended)
  max_jwt_uses: 5

system:
  # apply a real quota limit to each server
  # none, btrfs_subvolume, zfs_dataset, xfs_quota, (experimental) fuse_quota
  disk_limiter_mode: none
  # use multiple threads to check disk usage (usually lower to reduce load)
  disk_limiter_threads: 2

  # use multiple threads to run chown on server startup
  check_permissions_on_boot_threads: 4

  sftp:
    # whether to even enable to sftp (ssh) server
    enabled: true
    # the algorithm to use for the ssh host key
    key_algorithm: ssh-ed25519
    # whether to disable password auth for the sftp (ssh) server
    disable_password_auth: false
    # how many entries can be listed on readdir, 0 means unlimited
    directory_entry_limit: 20000
    # how many entries to send on each readdir call (chunk size)
    directory_entry_send_amount: 500

    limits:
      # how many failed password authentication attempts within cooldown
      authentication_password_attempts: 3
      # how many failed public key authentication attempts within cooldown
      authentication_pubkey_attempts: 20
      # how long in seconds to cooldown after reaching max authentication attempts (if 0, no cooldown is applied)
      # the cooldown is a sliding window, so if you make 3 failed attempts in 1 minute, you will have to wait 60 seconds from the last attempt
      authentication_cooldown: 60

    shell:
      # whether to enable the wings remote shell (allows server management over ssh)
      enabled: true

      cli:
        # what to call the internal cli for managing server actions (e.g. ".wings help")
        name: ".wings"

    activity:
      # whether to log successful sftp logins in server activity
      log_logins: false
      # whether to log file read actions in server activity
      log_file_reads: false

  backups:
    # what compression level to use? best_speed, good_speed, good_compression, best_compression (higher compression = more CPU usage, better compression)
    compression_level: best_speed
    # allow browsing backups via the web file manager
    mounting:
      # whether backup "mounting" is enabled
      enabled: true
      # what the start of the path should be for browsing
      # in this case, ".backups/<backup uuid>"
      path: .backups

    # settings for the wings backup driver
    wings:
      # how many threads to use when creating a .gz/.xz/.7z wings backup
      create_threads: 4
      # how many threads to use when restoring a zip wings backup
      restore_threads: 4
      # what archive format to use for local (wings) backups
      # tar, tar_gz, tar_xz, tar_bz2, tar_lz4, tar_zstd, zip, seven_zip
      archive_format: tar_gz

    # settings for the s3 backup driver
    s3:
      # how many threads to use when creating a .gz s3 backup
      create_threads: 4
      # how long in seconds to wait until a backup part is uploaded to s3
      part_upload_timeout: 7200
      # how often to attempt retrying each failed backup part
      retry_limit: 10

    # settings for the ddup-bak backup driver
    ddup_bak:
      # how many threads to use when creating a ddup-bak backup
      create_threads: 4
      # the compression format to use for each ddup-bak chunk
      # none, deflate, gzip, brotli
      compression_format: deflate

    # settings for the restic backup driver
    restic:
      # the repository to use for restic backups (must already be initialized, can be overriden by panel)
      repository: /var/lib/pterodactyl/backups/restic
      # the password file to use for authenticating against the repository (can be overriden by panel)
      password-file: /var/lib/pterodactyl/backups/restic_password
      # how long to wait for a repository lock if locked in seconds (can be overriden by panel)
      retry_lock_seconds: 60
      # the restic cli environment for each command (useful for s3 credentials, etc, can be overriden by panel)
      environment: {}

    # settings for the btrfs backup driver
    btrfs:
      # how many threads to use when restoring a btrfs backup (snapshot)
      restore_threads: 4
      # whether to create the snapshots as read-only
      create_read_only: true

    # settings for the zfs backup driver
    zfs:
      # how many threads to use when restoring a zfs backup (snapshot)
      restore_threads: 4

docker:
  # the docker-compatible socket or http address to connect to
  socket: /var/run/docker.sock
  # whether to add (part) of the server name in the container name
  server_name_in_container_name: false
  # delete docker containers when a server is stopped/killed/crashes (a lot better for your cpu)
  delete_container_on_stop: true

  network:
    # whether to disable binding to a specific ip
    disable_interface_binding: false

  installer_limits:
    # how long in seconds to wait until an install container is considered failed, 0 means no limit
    timeout: 1800

remote_headers: {}

remote_query:
  # how often to attempt retrying some important api requests (exponential backoff)
  retry_limit: 10
```

## added features

### api

- `GET /openapi.json` endpoint for getting a full OpenAPI documentation of the wings api
- `GET /api/stats` api endpoint for seeing node usage
- `GET /api/system/logs` api endpoint for listing all wings log files
- `GET /api/system/logs/{file}` api endpoint for reading a wings log file
- `POST /api/system/upgrade` api endpoint for remotely upgrading the wings binary
- `POST /api/servers/{server}/script` api endpoint for running custom scripts async on the server
- `POST /api/servers/{server}/ws/permissions` api endpoint for live updating user permissions on a server
- `POST /api/servers/{server}/install/abort` api endpoint for aborting a server installation process
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/logs/install` api endpoint for getting server installation logs
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/version` api endpoint for getting a version hash for a server
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/files/fingerprints` api endpoint for getting fingerprints for many files at once
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/files/list` api endpoint for listing files with pagination
- `POST /api/servers/{server}/files/search` api endpoint for searching for file names/content
- `GET /api/servers/{server}/download/directory` api endpoint for downloading directories on-the-fly as archives

---

- properly support egg `file_denylist`
- add support for browsing `.zip`, `.7z`, and `.ddup` compressed backups in the file manager
- add support for `name` property on `POST /api/servers/{server}/files/copy`
- add support for opening individual compressed file (e.g. `.log.gz`) in `GET /api/servers/{server}/files/contents`
- add (real) folder size support on `GET /api/servers/{server}/files/list-directory`
- add multithreading support to `POST /api/servers/{server}/files/decompress`
- add zip and 7z support to `POST /api/servers/{server}/files/compress`
- add support for `ignored_files` in the file upload jwt
- allow transferring backups in server transfers

### shell

- add ability to connect via ssh and access server console
- add `.wings` cli to do basic server actions like power

### sftp

- add support for the [check-file](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-secsh-filexfer-extensions-00#section-3) sftp extension
- add support for the [copy-file](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-secsh-filexfer-extensions-00#section-6) sftp extension
- add support for the [space-available](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-secsh-filexfer-extensions-00#section-4) sftp extension
- add support for the [limits@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L597) sftp extension
- add support for the [statvfs@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L510) sftp extension
- add support for the [hardlink@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L478) sftp extension
- add support for the [fsync@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L494) sftp extension
- add support for the [lsetstat@openssh.com](https://github.com/openssh/openssh-portable/blob/master/PROTOCOL#L508) sftp extension
- properly support egg `file_denylist`

### backups

- add [`ddup-bak`](https://github.com/0x7d8/ddup-bak) backup driver
- add [`btrfs`](https://github.com/kdave/btrfs-progs) backup driver
- add [`zfs`](https://github.com/openzfs/zfs) backup driver
- add [`restic`](https://github.com/restic/restic) backup driver
- add ability to create `zip` and `7z` archives on `wings` backup driver
- add ability to browse backups (for some drivers)

### cli

- add `service-install` command to automatically setup a service for wings
